[MUSIC]
Welcome everyone to our next lesson
which will be about pivot tables.
Pivot tables allow you to extract and
summarize large detailed data sets and
transform it into useful
easy to read information.
Pivot tables also automate formulas and
functions such as sums or
counts to create a summarized
table of your data.
There are many benefits and
uses of pivot tables.
Pivot tables can be as simple or
as complicated as you need them to be.
They are useful to make a quick summary
table but can also be customized using
self-formatting or
importing your own formulas.
In work settings, they are often used as
reports or dashboards that are extremely
useful for internal tracking, as well as
presentation material to show to clients.
We'll get in to how to create a pivot
table once we get into our exercises but
the process is easy to learn because
the tools in Excel make it a very
visual process.
Creating a pivot table is as
simple as highlighting your data,
clicking on the pivot table
function in the ribbon, and
clicking where you would
like the table to be.
Lastly, you drag your items from the field
list to the appropriate filter, row, or
column to make your table.
So now we'll start off in question
1A to actually make a pivot table.
So first, it's always important
to understand your data set.
So we'll go to the data set tab,
where you see a table of sales information
by distributor name, country,
product, sales channel and so on.
You've seen this sales data in
a few of our past Excel lessons.
So the first step to making a pivot table
is highlighting our whole Data Set.
So an easy way to do this, is to click
the top left cell, hit the control and
shift key, and hold those and then hit
the right arrow and the down arrow.
So you can see, we easily just
highlighted 110 rows of data.
The next step is to go into the insert
ribbon and click Pivot Table and
you'll see that the table that we just
highlighted is already in our table range.
Below, you can see that pivot tables
will default to go to a new worksheet,
but since we have a worksheet
where we're working,
I'm going to click Existing Worksheet and
click this button to select our cell.
I'll go to the section one create
pivot table and click right below and
hit enter, and
now click OK to create the pivot table.
On the right,
you can see the pivot table field list.
You can choose out of the columns of your
data set what you want to be columns,
rows, filters, or values,
in your pivot table.
For example, let's say we wanted
to see revenue by country, so
I'll click country and
you can see that it autopopulated to rows.
If we wanted it as columns, we could drag
it over to columns, but you can see that
doesn't look great, so I'm going to
put it back to the row section.
And then I'm going to
scroll down to revenue, and
it will autopopulate to values.
If you click the little
triangle next to your revenue,
you'll see a value field settings option.
In here you can choose sum,
count, average, or some
of the other Excel functions but the pivot
table will try to guess what you want.
In this case I do want a sum,
so I'll click OK, and
now we can see that we have
the summary of revenue by country.
It's always important to remember that
pivot tables do not update automatically.
So you should always refresh your data
to ensure that your table is current.
You can do that by going up to the analyze
ribbon in your pivot table tools and
click Refresh.
And you'll see that now we have
the most current pivot table.
Additionally, you can change the data
that you are working with, and
you can do that by looking at
the PivotTable Tools ribbon again and
click on Analyze, up here and
Change Data Source.
So if we had another tab with another
data set, we could change the data source
to provide the same pivot table
with the different set of data.
Now in problem 1b, you can make
a pivot table with our sales data.
Try moving around different
fields to the column, rows and
values section to see how it
affects the pivot table output.
[MUSIC]